# Chess_prodigy_identification

Chess is one of the oldest known board games still played to this day. It is believed to have originated in northern India or eastern Iran in the 6th century. Being an abstract strategy game, it involves a lot of calculation, patience and creativity to become a good chess player. Since the pandemic and focus on chess in popular media (Queen’s Gambit on Netflix), more and more people have started taking to chess. According to this 2022 UN report [1], there are more than 600 million people playing chess regularly!
Competitive chess is governed by FIDE (International Chess Federation) [2] which was founded in Paris, in 1924. They define the rules, conduct competitions, and most importantly - calculate the ELO ratings of each player and award titles such as Grandmaster or International Master to players. The ELO rating is a positive decimal number used to quantify the relative skill level of chess players. The Grandmaster (GM) title is the highest possible title usually awarded to people who cross the ELO rating of 2500, International Master (IM) title is next and is given to people who cross 2400 and so on, combined with some other criteria.
Given the abstract and mental nature of the game (as compared to baseball or basketball), chess data and analytics were never considered necessary in the past. However, with the chess boom and rising viewerships, professional chess players now compete for millions of dollars in online and in-person events. This has led to more chess analysts thinking increasingly about data and insights powered by newer and more advanced chess computers and engines. This project extends the same line of thought and aims to answer questions such as - what factors can have an impact on a chess player’s future ratings, whether they can become a professional chess player and what this peak rating will be.
